Plato

philosophy

I've started reading some Plato recently, after an acquaintance introduced me to this set of tetralogies put together by Bernard Suzanne. He's organized these tetralogies in a way that is supposed to build on itself and go through Plato's dialogues the way he imagines Plato would have wanted. For example, they say that there's a certain order you should watch all the Star Wars movies, which isn't the order you'd expect. Don't ask me what the order is though, since I've never seen Star Wars. But this is a similar thing, but with Plato instead of space operas. Anyways, Suzanne structures Plato's dialogues into 7 tetralogies (sets of 4 dialogues). I'd try to explain the whole concept more, but to be honest I don't quite understand it all myself so I'll stop here.

One of the topics that I've been thinking about a lot recently is on education - what the role of education is, etc. It's especially relevant with this college scandal excitement that's been in the news recently. Perhaps I'll write a post with my thoughts on it one day. Anyways, as part of that original train of thought, I think more people should read Plato. After all, some people say that all of western philosophy is just a footnote in Plato's works.

Ever since I've started the process of reading each of the dialogues, I've been thinking that Plato's works are especially suited for beginners. I'm a big fan of the structure he uses - it's just a conversation between a few characters. Most philosophy I've tried to read are just complex arguments that I lost interest in very quickly, but this was quite the opposite.

Even though Plato is suited for beginners and easily accessible for anyone to read, I still think it might be too inaccessible for the common person. The language is too verbose to easily follow. I find myself flipping back and reading slowly on occasion. Perhaps there's a need for a version of Plato that uses normal language and throws out all the complexities. I know, I know - Plato groupies will kill me for even suggesting such a thing, but I think there's some good in it. I think getting more people to question the world can only help.

Here, I'll make a promise. If I finish reading his dialogues and still think it would be useful, I will start translating Plato myself. I'll name it something obvious like "Plato for the Common Man". Or "Plato for Noobs". In fact, I'll go a step further. Maybe a simpler book isn't enough for what I'm thinking. What about a podcast where two guys are just chatting about deep topics, but surprise! It's just reading that simplified version of Plato out loud.