The Crowning with Thorns

theology

Throughout Lent, I’ve been praying the rosary much more frequently. As a result of this more frequent approach to prayer, I’ve lessened my focus on the sets of mysteries, and started to look at the mysteries for themselves. For example, instead of praying all five Sorrowful Mysteries in a rigid set, sometimes I would pray the Crowning With Thorns five times and consider that a rosary. Breaking this mold has helped me to look at each mystery from a perspective I hadn’t considered before. That being said, here are my thoughts on the Crowning with Thorns.

<b>Literature</b>


<blockquote>
“Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium, and they gathered the whole battalion before him. And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe upon him, and plaiting a crown of thorns they put it on his head, and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him they mocked him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!” And they spat upon him, and took the reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe, and put his own clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him.” (Matthew 27:27-31, RSV CE)
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
“And the soldiers led him away inside the palace (that is, the praetorium); and they called together the whole battalion. And they clothed him in a purple cloak, and plaiting a crown of thorns they put it on him. And they began to salute him, “Hail, King of the Jews!” And they struck his head with a reed, and spat upon him, and they knelt down in homage to him. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple cloak, and put his own clothes on him. And they led him out to crucify him.” (Mark 15:16-20, RSV CE)
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
“And the soldiers plaited a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and arrayed him in a purple robe; they came up to him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!” and struck him with their hands.” (John 19:2-3, RSV CE)
</blockquote>
<b>Thoughts</b>

Bold statement incoming. The Crowning of Thorns is one of the most underappreciated mysteries of the rosary. Feel free to disagree - I understand why you would.

From an initial gut reaction, the Scourging at the Pillar is without a doubt a more gruesome and sorrowful scene. The pain inflicted by a whip is something anyone can easily imagine, whereas the Crowning of Thorns was a more abstract event. That’s not to say that it wasn’t painful - I imagine a thorn being pushed into the head to be quite painful, but at least it's not a scourging!

This thought process is a common one. For example, in the film The Passion of the Christ, director Mel Gibson spends 13 minutes showing each lash with explicit detail. We see the blood spraying across the square. We see the blood flying onto the face of the soldier. We see Mary’s face in this time of suffering, and we see her mopping up the bloody ground. It's a difficult scene to watch, full of raw emotion that hits us straight in the gut. On the other hand, the Crowning of Thorns scene takes only 40 seconds, and is easily forgettable. It's over before you really notice that it happened.

So, allow me to present an alternative point of view on the Crowning. If you have a dispute you’re really stuck with and can't get over, scroll down to the bottom, where I address disputes, and scroll back up. If it's not addressed, leave a comment and I'll think about it.

Let’s start with the concept. Put yourself in the crowner’s shoes. You see a man who claims to be a king, and is facing the death sentence for it. You have several paths in front of you.

Scenario 1: You don't acknowledge that Jesus is King. If you were tasked with punishing a man who saw Himself as a king but was facing the death penalty for it, the proper reaction is pity. You pity a man who is deluded to the point of death.

Scenario 2: You acknowledge that He is King, and bow down before Him. Perhaps this is how we should see the women of Jerusalem. Sorry, this isn't you. (You're the guy crowning Him with thorns, remember?

Scenario 3: You acknowledge He is King, but you look away and squirm and avoid any interaction. Maybe you are afraid of the push back you may see by your associating with Him. Perhaps these are some of the people passing by. Not an ideal response, but this still isn't you. (You're next!)

Scenario 4: You acknowledge He is King, and reject his Kingship. As an acknowledgement of his Kingship, you place a crown on his head. But it's a crown of thorns that you push in to torture him. Completely unnecessary, and propagated only by your will. Then you spit on him, mock him, and bow down before him. A man that you know is your king and your master. What a cruel way to act. This is what Jesus endures for us.

I’m not done yet. Now let's look at this from Jesus’ point of view.

With the scourging at the pillar, it's easier to forgive. Put yourself in Jesus’ shoes. You may not be happy about the situation, but  you can see from their point of view. One man is just trying to prevent a bloody rebellion. You even explicitly allow it, telling him your understanding as he looks to you for help. Another is a soldier just trying to do his job and follow orders, and not get fired for letting that rebellion get out of hand. From his point of view, if he scourges you well, you may not have to die.

On the other hand, the Crowning of Thorns is more a personal decision. It takes several levels of depravity. Let's continue from Jesus’ point of view. You know the crowner and his thoughts. It's 100% from his own free will and desire to punish and mock you. If we take scenario 4 from above, you know that he acknowledges you as King, yet strikes you and mocks you anyways. How tempting would it be to show a little bit of your power to remind him of who you are? But it's not just that. You are enduring all this for his sake. You are going through all this to forgive him of his sins, as he mocks you for it. And the entire time, you hold him in existence. You hold him in existence so that he can mock you as you die for his sake. As you die to forgive him of this moment.

Okay let's get back into our own heads now, that's enough imagining for today. But let me raise one more point. Are we not that guy in scenario 4? Do we not believe and profess and Jesus Christ is our king? Do we not echo St. Thomas’ words “My Lord and my God” every time we go to Mass? Yet do we not mock his Kingship by rejecting Him as Lord of our lives? We instead replace Him with another king - perhaps it's ourselves or pleasure or money. We know that we cannot serve both God and mammon. We bow down to Christ and proclaim Him King with our words, as we turn around and proclaim ourselves king with our actions. And do we not do this all of our own free will, with nobody forcing us to do so?

Perhaps I can try harder to be the women in Jerusalem in scenario 2.



Dispute 1
You could argue that the crowner is really in scenario 1, but is just a crude and terrible person. Fine, I guess people like that exist. Read on then, and see note 3 when you get pointed to it.

Dispute 2
Sure, not a great excuse, the Nazis tried that one. But let’s be honest. There is some limited culpability. Who takes the primary blame? The soldier? Pilate? Me? It’s tough to place the blame squarely on a single person.

Dispute 3
Sure you may say that you really believe he is King, while the soldier doesn't. I argue that so does the soldier. But even if you reject the soldier’s belief, doesn’t that just make you worse?